Internal working of Apache Spark (don't forget to save it)

𝐀𝐩𝐚𝐜𝐡𝐞 𝐒𝐩𝐚𝐫𝐤 works on the principle of in-memory computation making it 100x faster and a highly performant distributed framework.

Here is a detailed explanation on what happens internally when a spark job is executed using the spark-submit command - 📋

𝐒𝐭𝐞𝐩 1 : Client application initiates the execution of spark job using the 𝐒𝐩𝐚𝐫𝐤-𝐒𝐮𝐛𝐦𝐢𝐭 command.

𝐒𝐭𝐞𝐩 2 : The request first hits the Cluster/Resource Manager which launches an Application Master with an AM container and the Spark Driver.

𝐒𝐭𝐞𝐩 3 : Driver program runs the main method. It creates a Spark Context/Session that would be active until the application’s lifecycle. 

The Spark Context helps create the 𝐃𝐢𝐫𝐞𝐜𝐭𝐞𝐝 𝐀𝐜𝐲𝐜𝐥𝐢𝐜 𝐆𝐫𝐚𝐩𝐡(𝐃𝐀𝐆) based on the transformations in the running program that consists of the RDD lineages.

Once an action is encountered, a Job is created and submitted to DAG Scheduler. 

𝐃𝐀𝐆 𝐒𝐜𝐡𝐞𝐝𝐮𝐥𝐞𝐫 🧮 then divides the graph into different stages, which are further divided into Tasks. 

Tasks are then submitted to the 𝐓𝐚𝐬𝐤 𝐒𝐜𝐡𝐞𝐝𝐮𝐥𝐞𝐫 🕒 which launches the tasks via the Cluster Manager on the different worker nodes and the executors execute these jobs.

𝐒𝐭𝐞𝐩 4 : Spark Driver requests the resource manager for resources to be allocated for the execution of the tasks.

𝐒𝐭𝐞𝐩 5 : The Resource Manager then allocates the worker nodes with the requested number of executors for further processing.

𝐒𝐭𝐞𝐩 6 : The Spark Driver then submits the code and dependencies to the executors where the execution of tasks takes place.

For more of such interesting content on Big Data Technologies, follow Sumit Mittal

PS ~ New batch of my Ultimate Master Program (Cloud Focused) is starting on coming Saturday. DM to know more!

hashtag#bigdata hashtag#dataengineer hashtag#apachespark
Activate to view larger image,
No alternative text description for this image
link(https://www.linkedin.com/posts/bigdatabysumit_bigdata-dataengineer-apachespark-activity-7237068688149880833-_hH-/)
